
How to get SIM800 to work with Raspberry PI

1. Make internet connection for installation
Connect Raspberry to Internet by Wifi or Ethernet

2. Enable serial port
In Raspberry Pi configuration -> interfaces
- Enable Serial Port
- Disable Serial Console

3. Turn off pincode
This step only has to be done if the SIM card still has an active pincode
Turning of the pincode is needed while the AT+CPIN command reply’s with OK to soon. This will cause the chat script to go on before the modem is ready.

Install minicom
Terminal commands:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install minicom

Connect to modem
Terminal command:
sudo minicom -D /dev/ttyS0 -b 115200

Turn off pincode in minicom
minicom command:
ATZ should return OK
AT+CPIN? should return +CPIN: SIM PIN indicating SIM PIN is needed
AT+CPIN="xxxx" replace xxxx by your PINCODE. should return OK. you have access to the SIM
AT+CLCK="SC",0,"xxxx" replace xxxx by your PINCODE. to disable the pin code

4. Install ppp, for serial data connections
Terminal commands:
Sudo apt-get update
Sudo apt-get install ppp

5. Place configuration and chatscript
Create or paste the chatscript in folder /etc/ppp (GPRS.chat, can be found in this directory)
Create or paste the ppp configuration file in /etc/ppp/peers (GPRSconfig, can be found in this directory, you might need to alter the APN username and password in this file.)

6. Start the connection
Terminal command:
Sudo pon GPRSconfig
(Connection can be turned off again with “Sudo off GPRSconfig”)

7. Check the connection
Terminal command:
Ifconfig
This will now show a new connection: ppp0
The proces of setting up the connection and potential errors can be tracked with te terminal command:
cat /var/log/syslog | grep pppd

8. Make the ppp0 connection the default route
Terminal command:
Sudo route add default dev ppp0

9. Check the connection
Load a webpage in the browser or ping an webadres with terminal command:
Ping google.com

If you have a browser, speedtest can be run at:
TestMy.net
Upload will be between 30 and 45kbps
Download will be between 80 and 100kbps
